I'm back in JSFiddle and even though I said we would use the zline from now on, we will but this simple
introduction to components is best done here or it's very easy done here
as this is the environment you saw before it and as it will also be very little code
I want to show you but the code I do show is very important.
Consider this application,
we get a normal vue instance where we select a certain place in the dom with the app selector but then
we override it with our own template down there, where I basically say server status
and then I use the status data property here.
That's a normal vue instance, nothing component-ish about that,
now let's say we wanted to place this server status in various places here in the app. As I showed you
in the last module,
that's not that easy to do,
if I repeat my app here besides that that it's not valid html to have multiple IDs,
you will also see it's only printed once and that is not because I'm using ID here,
if I were to use class here and change this to .app to select that by class, you still see it's only getting
used once, the second usage down there is getting omitted.
That is because we're creating a vue
instance here and with that instance, we will only select the first element,
so this div here, this div up here.
Now we want to repeat this in our application because we've got multiple places where we do want to use
it,
that's actually easy to do,
I'll restructure this, rename this back to ID and then I'll get rid of the second instance but now I want
to indeed use a component which means I want to create a re-usable piece of not only template but of
our vue
instance, a component basically extends the vue instance and we can create a new component by using the
vue object and then running the component method on that. Behind the scenes,
this will give us a new instance kind of but with some extra features.
Now the first argument in vue component is the tag name which you want to use to enter our component,
you can think of a component as our own html element we're creating,
so here I will set up component to use let's say my component, like this.
This will allow me to enter my component in the code like this,
so creating or using my own html element which I'm creating with that, therefore make sure to not use
an existing one,
also make sure to add a prefix to make your component unique so that you don't interfere with any third
party packages you might use or existing or possibly future html elements because you certainly
don't want to overwrite them.
So maybe use your company name as a prefix or at least something like app or my,
so this is the selector by which we're able to use this.
The second argument is the actual object which represents our component
and this is generally the same object as the object we're passing here to our vue instance,
therefore I can copy data in template to this object here to use that and I will change this to a hash
tag so that we will again select this part in the dom
but this will not work as intended.
The reason for this is the data object in the component, a component basically extends the vue instance
and therefore if we set up data like this, we kind of interfere with the other data properties, the other
data objects,
hence vuejs will actually give us an error if data is an object. It's fine or it's normal to use
it as an object in our root vue instance
but in any component, this shall actually be a function where we then return a new object holding the
data,
so this data object we used before is now basically returned in a function,
so by wrapping it in a function, we make sure we're not interfering with our data.
So with this set up, if I now hit control enter, we see the server status critical here and we see that
our component is now used successfully,
so we're now able to output it because we can now also repeat it if we would have it in multiple places
like this and that is what makes components so cool.
You have your contained vue instance, your contained code,
of course there you could also have methods, computed, all the things you already learned about
which is why I taught them first but now, you have it contained in this component which you can enter
as often as you want into your template here, into your code to reuse it.
And that gives you a very powerful tool to build your web pages.